docs: add solution guides "Launch a chain with fault proofs and HA sequencing" and "Choose your node stack" (#21923)
ethereum-optimism/optimism: docs/public-docs/use-cases/choose-your-node-stack.mdx

---
title: Choose your node stack
description: Pick the consensus and execution clients for an OP Stack node based on what the node is for, with review-dated support facts.
diataxis: how-to
content-type: solution-guide
last-reviewed: 2026-07-21
---

This guide takes an operator who is about to run an OP Stack node and turns
"which client software?" into a sequenced decision: fix the two-client
shape, rule out end-of-support software, choose the execution and consensus
clients, and match the pairing to the job the node does. It involves

> `op-node` and `kona-node` on the consensus layer, `op-reth` and Nethermind

Reviewer: I want to remove nethermind from the docs, other than just mentions that it is a third party maintained software. I want the emphasis to be on the software from Optimism because we can tie the docs to a codebase our organization maintains

on the execution layer, and the special-purpose `op-supernode` and legacy
Geth. Support status changes over time; the facts on this page are stated
as of the `last-reviewed` date above, and each exit links where to
re-check them.

## Is this guide for you?

Use this guide if:

*   You are choosing software for a new node on an OP Stack chain (OP

>     Mainnet, another Superchain chain, or your own chain), or re-evaluating

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    Mainnet, another OP Stack chain, or your own chain), or re-evaluating
```

    supply their own configuration).
*   The job the node does: public RPC, personal verifier, sequencer,
    fault-proof infrastructure, or archive/analytics. Step 5 keys on this.
*   Your hardware envelope. Read the
    [system requirements](/node-operators/overview#system-requirements) and
    take away the 16 GB RAM baseline for OP Mainnet and that archive nodes
    need multiple terabytes of NVMe and grow much faster than full nodes.

## Step 1: Fix the shape: one consensus client, one execution client

Every OP Stack node is two processes: a consensus client (rollup node) that
derives and relays the canonical chain, and an execution client that runs
the EVM and holds state, connected 1:1 over the authenticated Engine API.
Read the [node architecture overview](/node-operators/reference/architecture/architecture)
and take away:

*   The two-client split and which RPCs live on which side; you are making
    two client choices, not one.
*   The 1:1 rule: never multiple execution clients behind one consensus
    client or vice versa. Both client configuration guides (the Step 3 and
    Step 4 reads) open with this warning.

> ## Step 2: Rule out end-of-support software

Reviewer: we can also note that op-erigon has been deprecated too: https://www.sunnyside.io/blogs/sunsetting-op-erigon

    canonical chain. It is not a candidate for any new node.
*   **op-program has also reached end of support**, replaced by kona-client
    for fault proofs. This affects Step 5's fault-proof row, not your
    ordinary node choice.
*   **op-node is not deprecated**, and kona-node is not required for
    anything: the fault-proof migration to kona-client works with an
    ordinary op-node.

## Step 3: Choose the execution client

Read the [execution client configuration guide](/node-operators/guides/configuration/execution-clients)
and take away each client's minimal configuration and where its full
reference lives. The selection logic:

| If ...                                                       | Choose ...                | Because ...                                                                                                                                        |
| -------------------------------------------------------------- | --------------------------- | ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |

> | You want the default, for any node role                       | op-reth                    | It is the primary supported execution client: new OP Stack feature development, including hardfork support, happens on op-reth. As of 2026-07-21.  |

Reviewer: worth noting that this is the implementation maintained by Optimism

    The store only fills forward from the moment you enable it, so a node
    that turns it on late cannot serve the full retention window until it
    has run that long; decide per node role in Step 5.

## Step 4: Choose the consensus client

Read the [consensus client configuration guide](/node-operators/guides/configuration/consensus-clients)
and take away each client's minimal flags and sequencer additions. The
selection logic:

| If ...                                                          | Choose ...    | Because ...                                                                                                                                                     |
| ----------------------------------------------------------------- | --------------- | -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| You want the default, for any node role                          | op-node        | It is the reference implementation, is explicitly not deprecated, and its default engine kind (`--l2.enginekind=reth`) already matches the Step 3 default.       |

> | You want a Rust stack or to contribute client diversity          | kona-node      | It ships tagged releases, superchain-registry support, and sequencer/conductor integration, but its documentation marks it experimental and in active development, so give it a role where that is acceptable. As of 2026-07-21. |

Reviewer: so kona node is not production ready yet, so the if section it likely more if you want to try the in-development consensus node
